---
layout:post
date:10-11-2014
author:Wayne Shu
title: Textual Analysis
---

Voyant is awesome!

The design could definitely be updated. For example, the same five buttons are on each of the different tiles. Why not just show the buttons once and have the user hover over which box they want the button to be applied ( just one possible solution)? The design in general looks outdated, so the site initially is tough to look at and seems unimpressive.  

However, when I entered in my first text(random reflections from the my past) and started playing with some of its surface functionalities,  I was impressed ( in fact much more so than when I used Google Refine). 

The cirrus of words is pleasing to look at; I could quickly look at insights at my word choice ( I use the word 'enough' a lot and it's always preceded by the word 'not' or a contraction of it  such as didn't. Topic modeling these words for something like 'dissatisfaction with self' would be appropriate); and I could see clearly how I could use this to analyze two texts to help find interesting insights. Voyant is something I'll definitely want to utilize in my research. 

Topic modeling seems like a powerful way to finding underlying trends --one of my interests. Certain words convey certain modes of thought; topic modeling seems to help these modes of thought and map them out. All of the articles on topic modeling were fairly easy to understand as well and it was clear why it was something digital humanists concern themselves with. 

Looking at the article about Maria Bellard's diary, it was interesting to see how the use of MALLET was able to glean insights such as associating hearing to deaths because we often hear about deaths instead of witness them. This wouldn't be as intuitive as how often she talks about gardening per se. 

When hearing about the caution about MALLET, it provided a nice perspective, although since I haven't played with MALLET yet, the cautions don't resonate as much. They just seem to point to the fact that machines can help with statistical analysis, but as with any data, greater context is needed in understanding certain correlations and finding which ones are arbitrarily true. Basically, don't let a confounding variable confound you. These aren't really limitations specific to MALLET or LDA but in general for most if not all types of statistical techniques. 

I imagine with the amount of historical data available that it's an extremely powerful tool that will surely help with my research on Silicon Valley trends. For example, looking at the rhetoric of news articles during the dot com boom and the rhetoric of articles now may be interesting to see whether there are any meaningful similarities. 

Topic modeling and tools like Voyant seem particularly interesting when analyzing reflective writing over a period of time. Lots of times I remember trying to look through all of my old notes on my thoughts but because I had so many it wasn't feasible for me to parse through everything looking for recurring patterns. 

I loved the Ramsay essay about browsing, especially in relation to the widespread amount of data and the direction digital humanities is going. It's one of those essays where you know it was a great one but you need to read it over again to make sure you didn't miss anything. 
I noticed the link that was provided didn't work though so I found it [here](https://www.scribd.com/doc/215393184/Ramsay-Hermeneutics-of-Screwing-Around).

